Public Benefit Public License
=============================

## What is this?

An experiement in software license terms

## Motivation

I believe that the Open Source and Free Software movements have delivered a
tremendous amount of value.

I believe that enabling authors to capture a portion of the value generated
by the software they write is highly desirable as it contributes to the
sustainability of the ecosystem.

Unfortunately, in many cases most of the value generated by F/OSS software
is captured by large companies that very rarely bother to share any portion
of their winnings with the many open source contributors whose work they
rely on.

What if we stopped thinking of open source contributors as volunteers, and
instead considered them as akin to Public Benefit Corporations: generating
public goods and reasonably expected to capture some of the value of their
work?

## Goals

This license is intended to achieve the following goals:

  - Public Benefit software should be easy to inspect, for obvious educational
    and security reasons.

  - Public Benefit software should be easy to use within the Open Source and
    Free Software ecosystems.

  - Public Benefit software should be easy for private actors to try, so they
    can assess whether or not they can in fact derive a benefit from it.

  - Public Benefit should come with usage restrictions such that there is a
    strong incentive to share some of the value it generates with the authors


## Non-goals

This is not intended to be an air-tight legal document. It should be sound
enough that it's difficult to violate the spirit without also violating the
letter, and simple enough that most software practitioners feel confident
assessing whether a possible use is permitted or forbidden.

Broadly speaking, I believe it is desirable for the authors of Public Benefit
software to get a fair compensation, which could be calculatedd in any number
of ways: be it some hourly rate for the amount of time spent, or a percentage
of the value created or saved by users of the software. However, the details
of how this might be achieved are out of scope for this license.

## FAQ

 - *Are you a lawyer?* 
   Nope

 - *Is this any good?*
   It's an experiment. I'm putting this out to get feedback and start a discussion.

 - *What is the intended target?*
   Reasonably complex software tools, that have the potential to generate large
   amounts of value, most likely through _speed or efficiency improvements_ over
   available alternative.

 - *Any glaring limitations?*
   As written, the license works best with a single copyright holder, which
   is fine for projects owned by a single individual or a corporation, but might
   make it challenging to accept external contributions.


## Changelog

 - 2024/12/11 : v0.1


